
Lab Title: Google Cloud Fundamentals. Getting Started With Compute Engine.


Objectives: 1. Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform Console.(For the Practice Project assignment, translated to gcloud commands)
            2. Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud commandline interface.
            3. Connect betwwen the two instances.

Steps: 
            1. Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform Console.(For the Practice Project assignment, translated to gcloud commands)

               gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-1" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud"--image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213"--subnet "default"--tags http

               gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-http--action=ALLOW--destination=INGRESS--rules=http:80--target-tags=http


            2. Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud commandline interface.
            
               In order to display a list of the all the zones in the region us-central1, run the following command: 
                     
                                      gcloud compute zones list | grep us-central1

               In order to choose zone us-central1-b within the above region, excute the following command:

                                      gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b

               To create a VM instance called my-vm-2 in the above selected zone, run the following command:

                 gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-2"--machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default"


            3. Connect between the two VM instances.

                1. Use the ping command to confirm that my my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:
                       
                   First, connect to my-vm-2 by running the following command:

                                gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2
                  
                   Then ping my-vm-1 from my-vm-2 using the following ping command:
  
                                ping -c 4 my-vm-1

                   To open a command prompt on my-vm-1 from my-vm-2, use the following ssh command:

                                ssh my-vm-1

                   At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:

                                sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y

                   Use the nano text editor to add custom message to the homepage of the web server:

                                sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginxdebian.html

                   Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:

                                Hi from BernardJere

                   Press Ctrl+O and then press Enter to save the edited file, and then press Ctrl+X to exit the nano text editor.

                   Confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:
     
                                curl http://localhost/

                   Result: The response will be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including the line of custom text above.

                   To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

                                exit

                   Result: You will return to the command prompt on my-vm-2

                   To confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm1, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute the following command:

                               curl http://my-vm-1/

                    Result: The response will again be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.
   
                 2. Get the external IP address of my-vm-1 instance using this command:

                              gcloud compute instances list--zone us central1-a

                 3. Paste the copied IP address of my-vm-1 into a new browser tab and hit enter.

                    Result: your web server's homepage including the custom text.

                             




                   

                    

                    

                                
                              

                                 



                         




 






           





